* General Info
* Fixed v growth mindset
  * Fixed Mindset
  * Growth Mindset
* Personal Mindset
* Application of Mindset in Class
* Conclusion

All humans are essentially born at the same learning level.(Clarify this -- what is learning level? Do you mean we are born with zero KNOWLEDEGE?) We all have to learn how walk, talk, read, do math, and many other things over the years. We're (avoid contractions) born (ready) to learn. Over time (we use our brains to gain knowledge -need to tie these statements to brain statements afterwards) intelligence (intelligence? is capicity...knowledge increases?) can change. The brain is like a muscle. The more you go to the gym to work out the more your muscles will grow. If you ignore the workout routine, your muscles will decrease size. The brain is the same. The more you try to learn and grow in knowledge, the stronger your brain will become. If you choose not to constantly learn new things then your brain will deteriorate.

The fixed mindset is based on nature. It assumes one is born gifted or has natural talents and can't (contraction)learn learn much more than what nature allows them or has given them. It's (contraction)common for someone with a fixed mindset to be praised on how smart or intelligent they are.(Is the person WITH a fixed mindset praised or doing the praising?) This tends to make (what makes a person not want to try? Praise? unfair priase?) the person to not want to try harder things for fear of failing. They want to do what the easy thing and succeed so they can still be considered "smart"(why quotes?  who are you quoting -- do not use quotes for emphais). When they come across an error they will tend to run from it and not try to solve it. This kind of mindset leads to a joyless achievement.

The growth mindset is nurture based. It assumes everyone has the ability to learn if they wish. If the put effort, practice, and hard work into learning, anyone is capable of learning. It believes that abilities/intelligence (no slash)  can be developed. Someone with this mindset will embrace a challenge. If they come across an error they will struggle to solve the issue and not avoid it. They will love learning and will be confident and happy about their work.

In high school I was most likely under the fixed mindset. School came easy for me and I never really had to apply myself. It wasn't until college that I actually had to study (at least a lot more than I did in high school) for classes. The courses themselves weren't (no ctractions)very hard it just required more studying than I was used to. Being of a fixed mindset, I didn't (no contractions) like to have to actually study. So, I didn't apply myself like I could and should have. I got passing grades but nowhere near the kind of grades I know I should have gotten. (repetitive)

I've (no contractions) come to a point in my life where I know I haven't used my full learning potential. I squandered (how do you squander potential?  did not utilize?) my learning potential in high school and college. Now I want to see what I'm (no contractions) made of. I've always known I've (no contractions) been smart enough (smart enough is to casual for academic writing - try have the ability or something similar) and furtunately been able to pick things up fairly quickly (for the most part)(remove parenthetical reference and work in to sentence or remove)  to allow me to do just about any career I want. Now I want to push my learning potential to the limit and challenge myself as much as possible. This cohort is an ideal situation to challenge myself like I've never challenged myself before. (Repetitive) 

Although I do believe some are born with gifted and/or natural talents, I don't (contractions) believe that they have to be stuck where they are in the learning curve. I believe they should learn to improve their talent like anyone else. They just happen to have been born further ahead on the learning curve than most (who? huh? referencig gifted or talented?). A fixed mindset limits a persons potential. No matter how much or how little knowledge someone might have. To say you can't (contraction)  learn x because of a certain situation the person may be in only hurts the person who truely believes that (awkward - restructure). Anyone who has been blessed with a talent and doesn't (contraction)think they need to work on it is fooling themselves (how? unclear) also. Under a growth mindset the sky is the limit for both of the previous examples (restate examples in simpler terms).
